Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014, 1–2, DOI: xx.xxxx/xxxxxx-xxx-xxxx-x
1
WEB APPLICATION FOR PERSONAL DIGITAL HEALTH RECORDS
Alexander BRECKO∗, Ladislav POMˇ
S ´
AR∗, Iveta ZOLOTOV ´
A∗
∗Department of Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Technical University of
Koˇ
sice, Letn´
a 9, 042 00 Koˇ
sice, tel. 055/602 5115, E-mail: alexander.brecko@tuke.sk
ABSTRACT
This article explores the impact and benefits of digitizing health records, focusing on the care of patients lying at home in the UK.
Although electronic health records (EHRs) have existed for some time, their widespread adoption has escalated in the last decade,
revolutionizing patient care. Digitization of health records increases accessibility, improves communication between healthcare pro-
fessionals, and offers better monitoring and transparency in patient care. Through a case study of implementing a digital solution for
patients and doctors, this article aims to show how such technological advances can significantly improve patient care, reduce costs,
and provide peace of mind for patients’ families.
Keywords: web application, digitalization of personal health records, React application, Express.js
1. INTRODUCTION
Understanding how electronic medical records could be
utilized to facilitate and improve patient care has long been
a challenge for doctors and researchers. While hospitals
started implementing information technology in the 1960s,
electronic health records have only gained broad traction in
the last ten years. Healthcare professionals can benefit sig-
nificantly from the digitization of patient records. These op-
portunities include instant access to and processing patient
data through search capabilities, automated medication re-
minders, improved information sharing within the medical
team, and increased transparency through comprehensive
and readable patient condition documentation. There are
now more options for treatment and care than ever, lead-
ing to more patients needing long-term healthcare. For this
reason, the digitization of health records is becoming an in-
creasingly important part of modern healthcare [1].
Digitization of medical records is the process of moving
from paper copies of medical records to electronic records
that are stored and maintained in digital form. This pro-
cess has a major impact on the delivery of health care and
improves the accessibility and management of patient data.
Through digitization, healthcare providers can gain faster
and more efficient access to patient information, thus pro-
viding faster and more effective care. In addition, digiti-
zation of health records reduces the cost of paper docu-
mentation and increases the security of patient data. An
electronic health record is a digitized medical record. Get-
ting value from this technology requires a wide range of
functions that collect, manage, and share digital health in-
formation. This information can then be used to support
medical decision-making and clinical operations. Ideally,
information gathering begins before a patient visit by ob-
taining records from other providers or previous patient en-
counters. This and other information are then updated at
the beginning of the patient’s interaction with the physician
or nursing staff; additional data-such as lab results, images,
and progress notes-are added as the encounter progresses.
Ideally, this data could be portable to be shared with other
providers or accessed through patient portals [2].
The digitization of health records not only represents a
revolution in the efficiency and accessibility of healthcare
but also brings tangible benefits to patients, healthcare pro-
fessionals, and, not least, patients’ family members. This
article will focus on a specific case of the application of dig-
itization: the care of home lying-in patients in the UK. This
article looks closely at how digital technology is used to
help patients who are confined to their homes in the UK. We
chose to focus on the UK for this study because of a special
chance to work together with healthcare providers there.
Our team, which is based in Slovakia, was given access to
medical records and documents from UK guardians. This
help was crucial for us to develop a web application that
meets the needs of the UK healthcare system. The collab-
oration went beyond just making a web application. It in-
cluded working with technology in other ways too, like col-
lecting data from sensors, processing this data, and then an-
alyzing it. Getting to use real healthcare data from the UK
and having UK guardians willing to work with us played a
big part in why we decided to concentrate our research in
the UK. In recent years, we have seen how digitization has
enabled better patient health monitoring, simplified com-
munication between healthcare professionals, and provided
patients’ families with invaluable peace of mind and con-
trol. Using the example of implementing our solution for
home-lying patients in the UK, we show how technology
can be used effectively to improve care and support those
who rely on it.
2. RELATED WORK
Health record digitization applications are software
tools that enable the digitization and storage of patient
health records. These applications usually contain infor-
mation on a patient’s health status, medications and pre-
scriptions, tests and examinations, diagnoses, and surgical
procedures. Some apps also enable doctor-patient commu-
nication, online appointment scheduling and management,
and real-time tracking of health data and outcomes. These
apps improve patient care treatment efficiency and increase
patient satisfaction. The following overview highlights spe-
cific smart technologies that have found their application in
practice. The common features of these applications are
that they are easy to use, provide access to the most effec-
tive treatments available, ensure the highest quality of care
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
2
Web Application for Personal Digital Health Records
at affordable prices, and offer access to a wide range of
services (e.g., access to consultants, diagnostic tests, thera-
pies, and surgical procedures. There are many applications
for digitizing health records. Some of the most popular are:
• Epic Systems is one of the largest and most widely
used digital healthcare platforms in the world. This
application is designed for healthcare facilities and
physicians. It allows you to efficiently manage pa-
tient health records, share data and improve the over-
all delivery of healthcare [3].
• Oracle Cerner Corporation is another major digi-
tal health platform that helps physicians and health-
care providers manage patient records and coordi-
nate care. Cerner offers a variety of tools that al-
low you to monitor a patient’s health status, manage
medications, and perform a variety of medical proce-
dures [4].
• Allscripts is a popular digital health platform that al-
lows you to manage patient health records, share data
between healthcare facilities, and improve the qual-
ity of care you provide. Allscripts also offers mobile
apps that allow physicians to access important patient
information anytime, anywhere [5].
• eClinicalWorks is a cloud-based platform for digi-
tal healthcare. It specializes in healthcare providers,
small and medium-sized healthcare facilities. This
application allows healthcare providers to efficiently
manage patient health records, coordinate care, and
increase productivity [6].
• NextGen Healthcare is a digital healthcare platform
that helps manage patient health records, increase
the efficiency of healthcare delivery and improve the
overall quality of care. This application is designed
for healthcare facilities, clinical laboratories, physi-
cians and enables efficient coordination of patient
care [7].
Despite the progress of large companies in digitizing
health records, there are various implementations and ap-
plications in the form of web applications that simplify the
digitization and analysis of health records. For example, the
article [8] describes the technical development and deploy-
ment of the first patient-specific genomic test report (PGR)
within the electronic health record (EHR) ecosystem using
a locally developed standards-based web application inter-
face. The goal was to develop a tool that allowed the cre-
ation of patient-specific PGRs and accompanying reports
for the provider. These were converted into a format that
allowed them to be presented in the patient portal or EHR
using an existing interface, allowing patients, caregivers,
and providers to access individual reports intended for the
intended end user.
Also, in the article [9], the authors try to link the In-
ternet of Things (IoT) and EHR. They propose a high-
capacity, secure, and computationally efficient technique
for hiding electronic health records (EHRs) in medical
images in an IoT-driven healthcare system. The scheme
uses the pixel repetition method (PRM) and modular arith-
metic.
The PRM was used to magnify the input medi-
cal image to create a cover image, and modular arithmetic
was used to embed the secret EHR into the magnified im-
ages. The proposed scheme was tested in detail for var-
ious commonly used medical/test images and a group of
randomly selected images from the Uncompressed Color
Image Database (UCID) repository. Experimental investi-
gations showed that the proposed scheme is capable of pro-
viding secure and high embedding capacity while maintain-
ing reasonable imperceptibility, in addition to reversibility.
Further, the use of PRM for generating the cover image is
computationally highly efficient compared to the state-of-
the-art in this area. Hence, it is most suitable for electronic
health record (EHR) exchange in an IoT-based healthcare
system for smart city applications.
Given that this is medicine and healthcare, where data
are very sensitive, several publications deal directly with
the security of these data and how to share these data in the
most secure way possible. Within this, we can encounter
various security and encryption mechanisms. There are a
number of articles and publications [10–13] that are de-
voted to security. Proposed systems that primarily deal with
health records and data often use blockchain to secure their
data at this time. Blockchain enables the creation of im-
mutable patient logs for secure storage and quick access
to medical records, updating medical records, managing
health information between different providers, and peer-
to-peer blockchain browsing contracts. Participating in this
clinical data system provides patients with a complete dis-
tributed ledger record of all records of all events and seam-
less access to their healthcare provider’s electronic health
records.
3. ARCHITECTURE DESIGN
The objective of this paper is to design and implement a
web-based application that facilitates doctors in maintain-
ing and accessing patient records.
This digital platform
aims to streamline the process of updating individual pa-
tient profiles with pertinent health information while simul-
taneously providing a user-friendly interface for physicians
to review these records as needed.
The paper will describe the development of both fron-
tend and backend technologies. The frontend will focus on
creating an intuitive and responsive user experience, ensur-
ing the application is accessible and easy to navigate for the
doctors. Concurrently, the backend development will prior-
itize creating an infrastructure capable of managing sensi-
tive patient data with utmost confidentiality and integrity.
Integrating these technologies will result in a compre-
hensive web application that not only improves the effi-
ciency of patient record management but also adheres to
the high standards of healthcare information systems.
3.1. Frontend
Frontend [14] is the public part of web applications that
allow users to interact and communicate directly with the
application.
The frontend includes displaying the func-
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014
3
tional tasks and user interface that are performed on the
client side, as well as processing requests from users. On
any page, you see buttons, texts, animations, and other com-
ponents - all of this is implemented using the frontend. The
frontend is responsible for ensuring that the web application
displays correctly on different devices and screens, such as
computers, mobiles, and tablets, to provide users with an
optimal experience on different platforms. In addition, the
frontend can contain code that allows various client-side
functions, such as logic calculation, data validation, and
state management, allowing for faster responses to user ac-
tions without having to send data to the server and wait for
a response. Frontend is also closely related to UX (user ex-
perience) and UI (user interface) design, which ensures that
the web application is user-friendly, easy to use, and pro-
vides a positive experience for users. This is an important
factor that affects the overall success and user satisfaction
with the product [15].
Several web frameworks are used to simplify the work
with the frontend and creation of web applications. Fron-
tend frameworks are very useful on the presentation side
of the web and create a good foundation from which to
build pages. These frameworks combine HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript to effectively create conventions for different el-
ements [16]. Among the most popular frameworks for cre-
ating web applications, we can include:
• React.js is a popular framework developed by Face-
book. This framework focuses on the creation of user
interfaces. React uses JSX. JSX is an extension of
JavaScript syntax that allows programmers to create
user interfaces using HTML-like code [17].
• Angular is an open-source framework developed by
Google. Angular focuses on building dynamic web
applications and websites. Angular uses TypeScript.
TypeScript is an extension of the JavaScript language
that allows programmers to write code with greater
clarity and security [18].
• Vue.js is a progressive JavaScript framework that fo-
cuses on creating user interfaces. Vue.js uses unidi-
rectional data bindings, which allow programmers to
control the state of the application. Vue.js also allows
programmers to use composite templates that make it
easier to create user interfaces [19].
All the mentioned frameworks have their strengths and
weaknesses. Except for a few differences, they solve sim-
ilar problems. In this work, any framework could be cho-
sen to create an application for digitizing medical records.
After examining the available options, analyzing statistics,
and based on my own experience, it was decided to use Re-
act.js as a framework for frontend implementation.
3.2. Backend
Backend [20] refers to a piece of software hidden from
the end user. While the frontend focuses on the user inter-
face and what the user sees and interacts with, the backend
deals with data processing, databases, security, and server
logic [21]. The backend handles requests that come from
the frontend. With the backend, several options and frame-
works allow you to create a backend:
• Express.js or simply Express, is a backend web ap-
plication framework for building RESTful APIs with
Node.js, released as free and open source software
under the MIT license. It is intended for creating web
applications and APIs [22].
• Flask is a micro web framework written in Python. It
is classified as a microframework because it does not
require special tools or libraries. It has no database
abstraction, form validation, or any other compo-
nents where already existing third-party libraries pro-
vide common functionality [23].
• Django is a high-level web application framework
written in Python. It was designed to facilitate the
development of complex web applications with an
emphasis on speed, security and code maintainabil-
ity [24].
Given that we chose the very popular React for the fron-
tend, Express.js, which is directly intended as a backend
framework for Node.js and React, will offer us the greatest
advantage and compatibility for the backend.
3.3. Communication
Communication between frontend and backend takes
place via protocols such as HTTP (Hypertext transfer pro-
tocol) or HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure).
HTTP is an application layer protocol designed to trans-
fer information between network devices and runs on top
of other layers of the network protocol stack. The frontend
sends a request to the server via these protocols, and the
backend responds with the necessary data.
Fig. 1 Architecture of communication
Our communication architecture is shown in Fig. 1. As
mentioned above, a web application programmed using Re-
act will run on the user’s side. This web application will
communicate with our backend.
This backend will also
communicate with our MongoDB database.
3.4. Safety
It is possible to log in to the system using a login name
and password. This system architecture delineates specific
roles for its users, with a particular emphasis on two pri-
mary roles: patients and doctors. For patients, the system
grants exclusive access to their individual health records
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
4
Web Application for Personal Digital Health Records
and personal messages that are archived within the sys-
tem. Conversely, the role of the doctor or caregiver is en-
dowed with a broader scope of access. Specifically, doc-
tors possess the capability to access the records of all pa-
tients under their care, including those they have personally
added or managed within the system. This delineation of
access rights is integral to maintaining the confidentiality
and integrity of patient information while ensuring efficient
healthcare management by medical professionals.
4. ANALYSIS OF PAPER FORMS
Before the design and development of the application,
it was necessary to examine the paper forms which are nor-
mally used in home care. Analyzing paper forms before
their digitization is important because it allows one to get
an overview of what information is to be obtained and what
data is to be displayed. In this way, we designed and opti-
mized the digitization process in advance so that it is effi-
cient and minimizes the number of errors during data col-
lection and storage. The analysis of paper forms also makes
it possible to identify potential problems in the digitization
process and to find solutions to prevent or minimize these
problems.
The Fig. 2 shows the elevation chart form, which is used
for thorough monitoring and control of the patient’s health,
emphasizing the angle of inclination of the head and the
duration of this position. This form contains mostly textual
information that is systematically organized into 6 columns.
The individual columns contain important data, such as the
patient’s name, the date and time of the recording, the angle
of the patient’s head, the duration of the given position, and
the caregiver’s signature.
Fig. 2 Paper version - elevation chart
The child daily care report - another form that is used to
record information about the child’s care during the day.
It contains various text fields where data on the child’s
speech status, verbal and non-verbal communication, con-
centration, as well as feedback from family and friends are
recorded. In addition, this form also records information
about medication administration and other important data
related to the care of the child. Like other forms, the Child
Daily Care Report contains fields for recording the patient’s
name, date, time, and caregiver’s signature. These data are
used to identify and monitor the care of the child and pro-
vide a record of the time when the care was provided.
The pressure relief positioning chart is a form used to
minimize pressure and friction on certain parts of the body
that can potentially lead to skin ulcers. This form contains
various text and numeric fields, divided into 6 columns,
where important information such as the patient’s name,
date, time of recording, skin condition, recorded position,
and pressure relief measures taken are recorded. In addi-
tion, each record is signed by the caregiver, which ensures
accountability for the measures taken. A paper version of
this form is shown in Fig. 3.
The pediatric tracheostomy safety checklist is a form
that contains a list of measures that the caregiver must
check and record on the form to verify that all necessary
tracheostomy procedures have been performed in pediatric
patients. This form contains fields for recording the pa-
tient’s name, date, time and caregiver’s signature. The form
is specific in that it is divided into a table according to the
days of the week, and each day is further divided into day
and night shifts. The form does not use a normal text for-
mat, instead the caregiver records data in the form of yes
or no (boolean format), which distinguishes it from normal
text forms. Fig. 4 shows the paper version of this form.
Fig. 3 Paper version - pressure relief positioning chart
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014
5
Fig. 4 Paper version - paediatric tracheostomy safety checklist
The body map form is a special tool used by healthcare
professionals to record important information about a pa-
tient’s health. This form contains an image with a drawing
of the patient’s body, which includes both front and back
views. On the image, the healthcare professional can mark
problem areas such as wounds, burns or bedsores. In ad-
dition, the form also contains information such as the pa-
tient’s name, date and time, notes and the caregiver’s signa-
ture. A paper version of this form is shown in Fig. 5.
Fig. 5 Paper version - body map
The process of digitizing paper forms consisted of sev-
eral steps. The first step was to obtain the paper forms and
identify their type and purpose. The purpose of these health
forms was to record and store information about patients,
their health status and treatment, so that it would be avail-
able to medical personnel and health care providers.
The next step was the identification of patterns and com-
mon elements on the forms, which were subsequently used
for the design of the digital form. On all forms, we found
that certain data were repeated, such as date, time, patient’s
name, and the name or signature of the caregiver, which
must be written for each entry. These are common elements
that appear on all forms. Based on this information, we cre-
ated a conceptual model of the form and its functionality.
5. WEB APPLICATION DESIGN
When implementing web applications, it was first nec-
essary to draw how the individual subpages would look and
what they would contain. Our goal was to design a web ap-
plication that would completely replace the paper form and
provide the user with the same information. All the digi-
tal forms mentioned above have a very similar functional-
ity, which consists of adding a new medical record, edit-
ing or deleting existing records and displaying all records
in the form of a table. Entering values when adding a new
record will take place in a separate window. Additional but-
tons will be programmed to modify, edit and delete some
records. For each paper form, a separate subpage was cre-
ated, which has a certain functionality.
Fig. 6 Navigation scheme on the web application
The navigation architecture of a website refers to the
way the navigation is organized and structured. This de-
termines how the user can navigate between pages or sec-
tions of a website. It is a plan, scheme or model that deter-
mines how different parts of a website are interconnected
and how the user is allowed to access individual pieces of
content. The importance of a website’s navigational archi-
tecture is that it allows users to easily and quickly navigate
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
6
Web Application for Personal Digital Health Records
the site, find the information they want, and achieve their
goals. A well-designed navigation architecture increases
the usability of a website, improves the user experience,
and contributes to an efficient and satisfying user experi-
ence. The web application navigation scheme proposed by
us is shown in Fig. 6
For a better understanding of the architecture of our web
application for digitizing health records, it is necessary to
describe the individual pages and their available functions
for users in more detail.
Homepage: This page contains an overview of all avail-
able forms of medical records. Here, users can see a short
information about each form and have the option to click
on the corresponding button to open a specific form.
Form page: Here the user can see the complete form
with all the added entries. Various functions are available
for the user on the form page, such as adding a new form,
editing the content of the form, deleting the form or opening
a detailed version of the form. Here, the user can perform
various actions with the form according to his needs. When
adding or editing a record, a simple form opens where the
user fills in the necessary data. To delete a record, just press
the corresponding ’Delete’ button next to the record. If the
user enters incorrect values in the form, the system will no-
tify him of this error.
Registration: When registering, the user registers us-
ing a simple form, where he must fill in a username, email
address and password (which must be entered twice). If the
user selects an existing email address, the system will notify
him that there is already a user with such an email address.
Login: This page is intended for the login of users who
are already registered in the system. The form consists of
two parts - user e-mail address and password. In the case
of an unsuccessful login attempt due to an incorrect e-mail
address or password, a warning will be displayed on the
screen.
Dashboard: Here the user can see graphs with patient
information over time. The user has the option to add addi-
tional data using the form, which will be displayed on the
chart at the current time point. If the user enters incorrect
values in the form, the system will notify him of this error.
6. IMPLEMENTATION OF WEB APPLICATION
When developing and designing the design for the
healthcare application, we paid close attention to the needs
and requirements of the target user group, which are health-
care professionals and patients. We designed the design to
be simple, clear and intuitive, with an emphasis on usability
and accessibility. We also took into account the principles
of healthcare design, such as clear legibility, colour contrast
and appropriate content layout. The aim of the web app is
to help users solve health problems, so it is crucial that the
information on the site is easily accessible and comprehen-
sibly presented.
One of the most basic pages is the dashboard page. The
dashboard is a visual overview interface that provides a
quick overview of important patient information. Relevant
data are displayed there, which enable a quick analysis and
assessment of the health status of patients. This information
is presented in a clear form, which enables simple monitor-
ing and management of health care. The dashboard window
contains a pair of graphs that provide information about the
vital functions of the patient’s body.
Fig. 7 Dashboard
The first graph shows the patient’s temperature, oxygen
saturation and breathing rate values on the Y axis, which
makes it possible to monitor and evaluate these critical val-
ues. The second graph shows the values of the patient’s
blood pressure and heart rate on the Y axis, which provides
important data on the state of the patient’s cardiovascular
system. On the X-axis of both graphs, the exact date and
time the record was added is displayed, which allows you to
follow their development over time. All data is loaded into
the dashboard directly from the database, at the same time
it is possible to edit and modify this dashboard as needed.
The dashboard window is shown in Fig. 7
One of the most complicated subpages was the body
map subpage. This is a subpage used by a health profes-
sional to record a patient’s health status. The paramedic
marks on the patient’s silhouette the areas where the pa-
tient has problems, such as wounds, burns, and other trau-
matic injuries. The form also contains textual information
that describes the patient’s problems and metadata such as
date, time of recording. It also allows you to add a new
record, delete a record, view all records in the table, but
unlike other forms, it includes visual information about the
location of the problem on the patient’s body. Therefore, it
also includes a corresponding point map that allows you to
view a specific record with the relevant location informa-
tion. The figure silhouette consists of a background image
and interactive dots that allow the user to mark the neces-
sary areas. To create the interactive zones on the images, we
used the react-img-mapper library, which creates a React
component that accepts an image as input, a JSON map of
the coordinates of specific pixels for the interactive points,
and other features that provide the actual interaction. This
library allowed us to create a silhouette of a character that
is interactive and allows you to label individual body parts.
This part can be seen in the Fig. 8.
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014
7
Fig. 8 Body map
Paediatric tracheostomy safety checklist protocol is a
list of steps that the caregiver must check and record on the
form to make it clear that all or which of the necessary pro-
cedures have been performed. In the paper version of the
form, the list was divided into seven working days and each
day was further divided into day and night shifts, which
in practice meant that manual work was required to fill in
the entries for each day. However, in the digital version, a
different approach was decided upon. Instead of splitting
the working days into day and night shifts, a chronologi-
cal record was chosen, where the date and day of the week
are added to each record. A separate column was added to
represent day and night shifts, where a sun or moon icon
was added to the corresponding date. The sun represents
the day change and the moon represents the night change.
This approach has made it easier and faster to complete the
form without having to manually split the records into days
and shifts. In the following Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 you can
see what the digital version of the paediatric tracheostomy
safety checklist protocol looks like.
Fig. 9 Table of the digital version of the paediatric tracheostomy
safety checklist protocol
In a very similar way, we also made a web applica-
tion for the other forms that were analyzed in Section 4.
For each single paper version of the form, a custom sub-
page was created where the user can enter individual val-
ues and parameters that are directly stored in the MongoDB
database.
Fig. 10 Checklist for the digital version of the paediatric
tracheostomy safety protocol
7. RESULTS
When developing any software, software testing is a key
task. It is the method that determines whether the actual
software product meets the expected requirements and en-
sures that the software product is free of bugs. This involves
running software/system components through manual or
automated tools to evaluate one or more system function-
alities. The goal of software testing is to find bugs or miss-
ing requirements against the actual requirements. There is
a high probability that the final code contains functional-
ity errors and design flaws. Software testing is important
because if there are any bugs in the software, they can be
identified and corrected early before the software product
is delivered. A properly tested software product ensures re-
liability, security and superior performance, leading to time
savings, cost savings and end-user satisfaction.
7.1. Test scenarios
We created three test scenarios for our application,
which helped us test functionality and stability. 12 respon-
dents were contacted and asked to perform all three test sce-
narios we created to test the web application. The partici-
pating respondents were instructed and familiar with the ba-
sic features of the application and also knew who they were
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
8
Web Application for Personal Digital Health Records
intended for. The test scenarios and a link to our application
page were in the document each respondent received. The
application was developed locally and deployed on the MS
Azure cloud platform for testing purposes. At the end of
the testing, all participants completed a short questionnaire
consisting of 8 questions. The questionnaire is an important
part for getting feedback in order to fix bugs and improve
the application.
Table 1 Test scenario for editing the caregiver profile
Action
Expected result
The administrator
clicks the log in button.
The app will display
a screen with a
form to log in.
The administrator fills
in the form with
their login details.
The application logs
the administrator
in and displays
a home screen.
The administrator clicks
the show users button.
The application
displays a page with
a list of users.
The administrator
selects a specific user
and clicks the edit button.
The application will
display the form.
The administrator fills in
the form and clicks the
submit button.
The application
modifies the
user’s profile.
Table 2 Test scenario for caregiver actions
Action
Expected result
Caregiver clicks the
log in button.
The app displays a
screen with a login
form.
Caregiver fills in the
form with their login
details.
The application logs
the caregiver in and
displays a home screen.
Caregiver clicks the
show my patients
button.
The application displays
a page with a list of
patients.
Caregiver selects a
specific patient and
clicks the show more
button.
The application displays
the patient’s profile.
Caregiver clicks the
daily reports button.
The app displays all
the daily reports of
the selected patient.
Caregiver clicks
the create new report
button.
The application displays
a form.
Caregiver fills in
the form and clicks
the submit button.
The application sends
the filled form to the
database.
In Table 1 is a scenario designed to test the editing of
the caregiver profile. The primary actor of this scenario is
an administrator type user and the test scenario consists of
five steps, the condition is that there must be at least one
user of the caregiver type.
The second test scenario can be found in Table 2 , where
we created a scenario to test the functionality for adding a
daily report. The primary actor in this scenario is a user of
type caregiver. The user must be registered and the care-
giver position must be approved by the administrator. Our
test scenario consists of seven steps.
Table 3 Test scenario for patient actions
Action
Expected result
Patient clicks the log
in button.
The app displays
a screen with a login
form.
Patient fills in the form
with their login details.
The application logs the
patient in and displays
a home screen.
Patient clicks the show
daily reports button.
The application
displays a page with
a list of daily reports.
Patient clicks the show
height chart button.
The application displays
a page with data.
Patient clicks the show
pressure relief position
table button.
The application displays
a page with data.
Our final test scenario is shown in Table 3 and aims to
test the possibility of displaying the data to patients. The
primary actor in this scenario is the patient user type. The
user must be registered and the condition is that the patient
has the displayed data filled in.
7.2. Evaluation of testing
This section presents an analysis of the survey out-
comes, in which participants provided feedback on multi-
ple facets of the application, including its usability, func-
tionality, clarity, and their overall level of satisfaction or
dissatisfaction. In the survey, participants had the oppor-
tunity to evaluate our application using a rating scale that
ranged from 1 (indicating the highest level of satisfaction)
to 5 (indicating the lowest level of satisfaction).
Upon evaluating the responses to the query regarding
the appeal of the application’s design, it becomes evident
that the participants were more than satisfied. These results
are shown in the Fig. 11 It is fair to infer that the design
did not cause any distractions; rather, it was characterized
by its simplicity and clarity.
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014
9
Fig. 11 Application design evaluation
An analysis of responses to the second question, which
assessed the difficulty of using the application, is presented
in Fig.
12.
The majority of respondents gave positive
feedback, indicating that navigating the application was not
challenging.
Fig. 12 Evaluation of the navigation in the application
The third question was directly aligned with our testing
scenarios. We inquired if respondents encountered any is-
sues while utilizing the various functions. The responses
are depicted in Fig. 13. It is apparent from the feedback
that the majority of users found functions such as login and
registration, submitting daily reports, and accessing patient
data to be very straightforward. However, complications
were noted in the functionality related to editing the nurse’s
profile.
Fig. 13 Assessment of the difficulty of performing each function
The evaluation of the application’s functionality and sta-
bility was addressed in the fourth question. The respon-
dents’ answers are illustrated in Fig. 14. The graph high-
lights that the application was stable, did not shut down un-
expectedly, and operated effectively.
Other criteria were also evaluated, such as the evalua-
tion of whether the application met expectations, the evalu-
ation of overall satisfaction or also overall feedback, where
the user had to verbally describe problems, suggestions and
improvements to the application.
From the responses, we found that the functionalities in
the test scenarios were accessible for the users, and no sig-
nificant problems were encountered. The application was
generally positively evaluated, and users had no reserva-
tions about the design and functionality.
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
10
Web Application for Personal Digital Health Records
Fig. 14 Application stability assessment
8. CONCLUSIONS
We have performed a analysis of modern technologies
relevant to the development of web applications. This in-
cludes an overview of the tools and frameworks for digi-
tizing health records. During the development process, we
encountered and solved various challenges, including front-
end issues related to design and user interface, as well as
back-end issues related to application architecture and inte-
gration between front-end and back-end components.
A thorough review of the paper forms was conducted,
focusing on the details and intricacies of the information
fields. After this analysis, we started designing and proto-
typing the web application so that its architecture and func-
tionalities meet the required standards. This phase also in-
cluded rigorous testing of the application’s functions.
Subsequently, we developed an efficient system for
storing information from medical records. Finally, using
the React.js and Express.js frameworks, we successfully
created a web application dedicated to digitizing medical
records. The application uses the MongoDB database for
safe and efficient data storage. This paper highlights the
advancements in web application development and enables
the provision of a functional and user-friendly digital solu-
tion for health record management.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This publication is the result of the research project
funded by VEGA grant EDEN: EDge-Enabled intelligeNt
systems (VEGA/1/0480/2).
REFERENCES
[1] Pohlmann, S., Kunz, A., Ose, D., Winkler, E., Brand-
ner, A., Poss-Doering, R., Szecsenyi, J. & Wensing,
M. Digitalizing health services by implementing a
personal electronic health record in Germany: qual-
itative analysis of fundamental prerequisites from the
perspective of selected experts. Journal Of Medical
Internet Research. 22, e15102 (2020)
[2] Atasoy, H., Greenwood, B. & McCullough, J. The
digitization of patient care: a review of the effects of
electronic health records on health care quality and
utilization. Annual Review Of Public Health. 40 pp.
487-500 (2019)
[3] Epic Systems Corporation, Epic Software, https:
//www.epic.com
[4] Oracle Cerner, Inovation for healthcare, https://
www.cerner.com
[5] Allscripts, Veradigm formerly Allscripts, https://
veradigm.com
[6] eClinicalWorks,
Reinvent
Your
Practice
with
a
Multidimensional
EHR,
https://www.
eclinicalworks.com
[7] NetxGen Healthcare, EHR sustem, https://www.
nextgen.com
[8] Williams, M., Kern, M., Lerch, V., Billet, J., Williams,
J. & Moore, G. Implementation of a patient-facing ge-
nomic test report in the electronic health record using
a web-application interface. BMC Medical Informat-
ics And Decision Making. 18, 1-9 (2018)
[9] Parah, S., Sheikh, J., Akhoon, J. & Loan, N. Elec-
tronic Health Record hiding in Images for smart
city applications: A computationally efficient and re-
versible information hiding technique for secure com-
munication. Future Generation Computer Systems.
108 pp. 935-949 (2020)
[10] Tanwar, S., Parekh, K. & Evans, R. Blockchain-based
electronic healthcare record system for healthcare 4.0
applications. Journal Of Information Security And Ap-
plications. 50 pp. 102407 (2020)
[11] Chelladurai, U. & Pandian, S. A novel blockchain
based electronic health record automation system for
healthcare. Journal Of Ambient Intelligence And Hu-
manized Computing. pp. 1-11 (2022)
[12] Kaur, J., Khan, A., Abushark, Y., Alam, M., Khan, S.,
Agrawal, A., Kumar, R. & Khan, R. Security risk as-
sessment of healthcare web application through adap-
tive neuro-fuzzy inference system: a design perspec-
tive. Risk Management And Healthcare Policy. pp.
355-371 (2020)
[13] Hylock,
R. & Zeng,
X. A blockchain frame-
work for patient-centered health records and ex-
change (HealthChain):
evaluation and proof-of-
concept study. Journal Of Medical Internet Research.
21, e13592 (2019)
[14] Abdullah, H. & Zeki, A. Frontend and backend web
technologies in social networking sites: Facebook as
an example. 2014 3rd International Conference On
Advanced Computer Science Applications And Tech-
nologies. pp. 85-89 (2014)
[15] Dankanych,
N.,
Webov´
a
aplik´
acia
pre
dig-
italiz´
aciu
zdravotn´
ych
z´
aznamov,
https:
//opac.crzp.sk/?fn=detailBiblioForm&
sid=D98A4A9B442AA1687F52426ADD31, 2023
[16] Lu, M. & Yeung, W. A framework for effective com-
mercial web application development. Internet Re-
search. 8, 166-173 (1998)
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
Acta Electrotechnica et Informatica, Vol. 14, No. X, 2014
11
[17] React, The library for web and native user interfaces,
https://react.dev
[18] Angular, Deliver web apps with confidence, https:
//angular.io
[19] Vue, The Progressive JavaScript Framework, https:
//vuejs.org
[20] Canaday, R., Harrison, R., Ivie, E., Ryder, J. & Wehr,
L. A back-end computer for data base management.
Communications Of The ACM. 17, 575-582 (1974)
[21] Drobˇ
n´
ak,
D.,
Tvorba
webovej
plat-
formy
Check-Up,
https://opac.
crzp.sk/?fn=detailBiblioForm&sid=
22891320CECCAE8269CB498E7C57, 2022
[22] Express.js,
Fast,
unopinionated,
minimalist web
framework for Node.js, https://expressjs.com
[23] Flask,
Flask
documentation,
https://flask.
palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/
[24] Django, Django makes it easier to build better web
apps more quickly and with less code, https://www.
djangoproject.com

BIOGRAPHY
Alexander Brecko is a PhD student at the Department of
Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Technical Univer-
sity of Koˇ
sice. He received his Bachelor’s degree in 2019
and Master’s degree in 2021. His Bachelor’s thesis deals
with edge computing.
His master thesis deals with the
development of a REST API for communicating multiple
lab models and their synchronization. His current research
deals with federated learning and edge computing in trans-
port and health.
Ladislav Pomˇ
s´
ar is a PhD student at the Department of
Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence, Technical Univer-
sity of Koˇ
sice. His research is centered around deployment
of AI models to the Edge, especially to the Edge AI acceler-
ators, and medical artificial intelligence, specifically in the
area of Parkinson disease diagnostics.
Iveta Zolotov´
a is a professor and a leader of the re-
search group Intelligent Cybernetic Systems at the DCAI
FEEI TUKE. Her expertise are: intelligent systems, human-
system symbiosis and interaction, digital twin, Industry
4.0/5.0, industrial informatics, applied artificial intelli-
gence, edge AI, industrial IoT, smart health and transporta-
tion, computer vision, robotics. She leads many research
and innovation projects, and the labs: Think lab: Vison,
IoT and Robotics; Intelligent Health Lab, and Smart Indus-
try/Industry 4.0 lab. She is a member of IFIP and a senior
member of IEEE.
ISSN 1335-8243 (print) © 2014 FEI TUKE
ISSN 1338-3957 (online), www.aei.tuke.sk
