In the last several years, there has been a big
boom in the field of AI, and particularly in a subset called
deep learning. The models used in deep learning are often
relatively computationally expensive and problematic to execute
in real-time in environments with computational and energetic
constraints. In order to do so, specialized hardware, so-called
AI Accelerators are often utilized. The term AI Accelerators
encompass a wide variety of different devices using different
technologies. This work surveys a market and introduces an
overview of such accelerators for a network’s edge constrained
by electrical energy.
IV. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this article, we have provided a brief overview of dif-
ferent commercially available Edge AI accelerators. We see a huge variety of devices based on different chips, running
different operating systems, and utilizing different AI frame-
works/runtimes. While manufacturers of all of the devices
mentioned above were able to specify the theoretical max
performance of the devices, usually, they were not able to
specify the power draw of the SBC. It is hard to make even an
educated guess on which edge devices should be used for the
specific deployment in such an environment. It is even harder
when we consider framework-specific optimizations. Another
question is the devices’ limits, for example: Are all the devices
able to run 3D convolutional networks? If not, is it due to the
intrinsic limitations of the chip design or due to the lack of
computing power? We do not know the answer to any of those
questions now.
We believe that there is a need to examine these devices
further and preferably create some kind of guidelines on
how, when, and where to deploy AI applications to achieve
maximum efficiency and low costs. In the process, it is
also necessary to introduce a more objective and less naive
division than only boards/sticks as the board category is still
vast. In order to do so, it is needed to compare them and
preferably create some curated benchmark that would be able
to encompass a significant portion of such devices. This,
however, will mean incorporating a wide variety of different
frameworks and runtimes.